Install: 
pip install pandas tensorflow plotly scikit-learn dash --user



🧩 Exercises (Progressive Difficulty)
Exercise 1: Basic Exploration

Print the shape of the dataset (number of rows and columns).

Display all column names.

Show how many different vehicle types there are.

Find the total number of trips.


Exercise 2: Simple Summaries

Find the average trip distance.

Find the average duration for each vehicle type.

Which vehicle type has the highest average ride rating?


Exercise 3: Filtering and Sorting

Display all trips longer than 20 minutes.

Find the top 5 longest trips by distance.

Filter trips where the battery dropped by more than 20%.


Exercise 4: Grouping and Aggregation

Group trips by vehicle_type and show:

Average distance

Average duration

Average rating

Find the day and hour with the most trips (hint: use pd.to_datetime and dt.hour).


Exercise 5: Geospatial & Insights

Create a new column for battery_used = battery_start - battery_end.

Plot a simple scatter chart of start vs end locations (optional).

Find which latitude range (approx.) has the most trip starts.

Predict which vehicle type might need most charging attention based on average battery drop.

🧩 Follow-up Exercises
Exercise 6: Parking Analysis

Find which hub has the highest utilisation (vehicles_present / capacity * 100).

Identify any hubs that are over 90% full.

Plot a bar chart of parking utilisation per hub.


Exercise 7: Vehicle Analysis

Count how many vehicles are currently charging.

Calculate the average battery level for each vehicle type.

Which hub has the lowest average battery level among vehicles parked there?


Exercise 8: Data Joining

Merge the vehicles dataset with the parking dataset on hub_id.

Create a new column showing battery deficiency (100 - battery_level).

Find which hub has the highest total battery deficiency across its vehicles (good indicator of where charging resources should go).


Exercise 9: Combined Insight

Combine all datasets to:

Find the most common start location (from trips) that leads to a low-battery vehicle ending up at a particular hub.

Identify any patterns in battery depletion by hub or vehicle type.